





Mental Health First Aid Training
May 31, 2022 | Tips for Prospective Students


As a student of Codeup, going through a massive career transition can be mentally taxing. Did you know that members of our student-facing staff and human resources team are trained in Mental Health First Aid? Let’s dive into what that means for Codeup! 
Mental Health First Aid Training 
Some of our Codeup staff that works directly with our students are trained in Mental Health First Aid. This includes members of our student experience team, career coaches, and the human resources department. This training was courtesy of the Center for Health Care Services in San Antonio. They graciously provided the funding and training for our team in this pilot training program. 
What is Mental Health First Aid? According to mentalhhealthfirstaid.org, “is a course that teaches you how to identify, understand, and respond to signs of mental illness and substance use disorders. The training gives you the skills you need to reach out and provide initial help and support to someone who may be developing a mental health or substance use problem or experiencing a crisis”.
To be clear, our staff are not licensed, mental health professionals. What MHFA equips our staff with are tools to gauge risk and connect students and staff with the help they might need. This might include recognizing something in a meeting, picking up on cues during a casual conversation, or acting on a pattern behavior. 
How does this help our students?
Many who go through Codeup’s programs will tell you it is both rewarding and challenging all at the same time. Some students have compared learning at Codeup to  “drinking from a firehouse”. You learn so much at once, so fast. This style of learning if you are not used to it can be taxing on anyone’s mental fortitude. This allows our staff who work closely with the students to be able to identify if a student is in need of mental health help. 
Consider Your Career Change Today
Why does this skill set matter? You! We’re here to support your career transition as best we can, and Mental Health First Aid training is just one small piece of that larger support effort. Learn more about how we can support your career transition by applying today. 
 








Our ProgramsCloud Administration
Full Stack Web Development
Data Science





Latest Blog Articles
Is a Career in Tech Recession-Proof?
Codeup X Superhero Car Show & Comic Con
What Jobs Can You Get After a Coding Bootcamp? Part 3: Web Development
Codeup’s New Dallas Campus
Codeup TV Commercial

















 


